fixes issue #1240:Double-check BEM & md syntax, fix typos & wording in outline (#1291)
Techtonica/curriculum: css/BEM-style.md

  
### Motivation

On smaller pet projects, the way you organise your CSS or even Sass styles doesn't really matter and it's mainly because you never really look back into the project ever again thinking about maybe scaling it or adding new features every time.

However in bigger projects with over a 100 style sheets and varied components spread across the application, that can raise a serious issue, since changing the styles for any component would mean searching for the absurd CSS naming (either id's, classes or combination of both) you provided maybe a month before.

> If that's not worse, how about you also finding out that your new styles written lacks behind on specificity and your styles were never applied, since some other previously applied class or even id made your previous styles highly specific compared to your new ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If that's not worse, how about you also finding out that your new styles written lags behind on specificity and your styles were never applied, since some other previously applied class or even id made your previous styles highly specific compared to your new ones.
```
?

Would you mind re-wording this whole section?  It sounds a but funny.

On smaller pet projects, the way you organise your CSS or even SaSS styles doesn't really matter and it's mainly because you never really look back into the project ever again thinking about maybe scaling it or adding new features every time.

> However in bigger projects with over a 100 stylesheets and varied components spread across the application, that can raise a serious issue, since changing the styles for any component would mean searching for the absurd CSS naming (either id's, classes or combination of both) you provided maybe a month before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However in bigger projects with over a 100 style sheets and varied components spread across the application, that can raise a serious issue, since changing the styles for any component would mean searching for the absurd CSS naming (either id's, classes or combination of both) you provided maybe a month before.
```

- The **'Block'** are the standalone components in a webpage that are meaningful on its own.
 
  >Example includes: navbar, header, footer, hero-boxes, buttons etc.

-  The **'Element'** are the components that have no standalone meaning, but when tied to a block, represents a part of the block. It expresses a semantic meaning only when tied to a block.  
   
   >Example includes: nav-links, footer-links, headings and sub headings inside heroboxes etc.

-  The **'Modifier'** are like flags that differentiate blocks or elements inside the block in terms of its appearance.
   
   >Example includes: buttons which are muted, navlinks which are active or disabled etc. 

**2.Understanding how BEM is written (The Syntax) ?:** 

To understand this, let us consider that we are making two different buttons (we'll use HTML anchor tags and style them to look like buttons): One which is in the primary state and other, which will be in the inverted-primary state. The states of the links are defined based on the styling applied to them.

Then the HTML markup with the classes will be:
```
<a href="#"class="link link--primary">Yes, please</a>

> <a href="#"class="link link--primary-inverted">No, I'm okay!</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<a href="#" class="link link--primary">Yes, please</a>
<a href="#" class="link link--primary-inverted">No, I'm okay!</a>
```

```

You can now pretty much style all the components the way you like, just by using the names of the classes only (remember BEM was all about making specificity low and avoiding conflicts).
>If you are using Sass , BEM becomes more powerful because now you can use the Sass nesting feature for all the classes.
```
.hero-box{
    height: 100vh;

>     background:linear-gradient(to bottom right, #000, transparent),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    background:linear-gradient(to bottom right, #000, transparent);
```

    text-decoration: none;
    border:1px solid saddlebrown;
    padding:1rem 2rem;

>     color: white;

Reviewer 2: If you want to add white space like this, do it everywhere as I see attributes where you not did the same change.

}
```

**3. BEM is useful on larger codebases because it is scalable and maintainable.:** 

What if I told you to add a new button with some animation on it in the hero-box section? What other information will you need? Well nothing, since all necessary information is already present with you now and you know exactly where this component must lie and how you will name the classes on it. 

> For example:  `<a href="#"class="link link--animated">Animated Button</a> `. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:  `<a href="#" class="link link--animated">Animated Button</a> `. 
```

> This is again considering that the anchor tags are styled to look like buttons, like the other anchor tags inside the **herobox__links**  block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is again considering that the anchor tags are styled to look like buttons, like the other anchor tags inside the **herobox__links** block.
```

### Challenge

Since you can use BEM pretty much anywhere, how about refactoring your previously written code for a very old project.  
This will show you how your previously named classes, now makes it difficult for you to understand and maintain CSS code. But using BEM now will no longer create that issue for you. (15-20 mins)

### Check for Understanding  

Form small groups and discuss:

- Why is using a naming architecture/principle like BEM important?  

> - How can the BEM naming principle be used(the priciple for naming blocks,elements, and modifier)?  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explain how to use the BEM naming principles: blocks, elements, and modifiers.
```
